# Project Report
In the `ProjectDocument.md` file that was created at the beginning of the semester, it was mentioned that the project would specifically target college-aged students entering college as a way to keep track of nutritional data in foods through the ingredients database. The goal of the final project has largely remained the same since, although the nutrition tracker idea has since been abandoned for a system that simply recommends users recipes matching their nutritional needs.

The application achieves the basic functionality it set out to achieve, which is to calculate nutritional data for user-generated recipes. However, one area where it fails at the moment is in the user interactivity. As an application that was initially meant to target college students, the user interaction aspect of the application was initially meant to be expanded so that a sort of community could be made where users could even specifically share recipes and recommendations with one another. The current version only provides for limited socially-focused features, which is a step back from what it was originally meant to be.

The database used for the website now only includes what the USDA describes as 'Foundational foods', meaning a relatively small subset of the total database. This decision was taken due to the time-limit nature of the project, and in order to simplify the process instead of loading in a database file that is 10s of thousands of lines long. However, this has meant that the list of ingredients a user can add into their recipes now is actually quite limited, and difficult to use for the user.

The nutrition tracker was removed simply due to a lack of members on the team. With one member dropping the course early on and another ill for the majority of the semester, the application was simplified to only include the most basic features, which were considered core to the completion of the project. This mainly includes the nutritional calculator for user-generated recipes, as well as the ability for the user to find recommended recipes based on their nutritional needs.

The advanced database queries complement the project by providing an easy way to view data and get overviews. In the future, this can be used even more to give users better ideas of how to find recipes, such as if we were to implement an algorithm to recommend recipes created by specific users (on of the advanced queries were used for filtering users based on the nutritional data of their recipes), or for providing a better way to see nutritional data for recipes.

One technical challenge encountered was seen in the manipulation of large datasets, as would have been necessary for the full USDA dataset. While the foundational foods database proved more manageable, as the database for this application was made using a CSV file made using Python by joining elements of multiple CSV files that the USDA provided due to its broken-up nature, for the full dataset, errors often came out of attempting to manipulate the data as up to 6 GB of RAM were quoted as being necessary. While this could be solved more easily by breaking up the data, using a separate SQL query to join the CSV files there to use in the main database may have made more sense.

Besides the user interface, work can be done in attempting to implement the more social-oriented features of the application such as sharing recipes, along with expanding the ingredients database which is currently limited. It is unclear how much ingredients would be necessary to make it truly user-friendly, as even with a 3000-ingredient long database of ingredients, the current state of the `ingredient` database is woefully insufficient for its intended application. Perhaps manually inputting nutritional data into the database for different fruits and vegetables would be more friendly than using the USDA database, which may be somewhat confusing to navigate when inputting ingredients in the recipe creation section.

Teamwork was managed on a combination of Campuswire and Discord. It was difficult to manage the final division of labour due to the situation with effectively only having two teammates, especially with much of the final part of the project being done locally on computers. Communication was still made in the form of status updates on Campuswire to ensure a level of teamwork.
